== Introduction ==

This is a quick guide to installing turbocare using mod_python on Ubuntu.  Using Apache to serve the static content makes things nice and fast.  This is very much designed as a step by step documenting one way of setting things up.  There are other ways to do most things in here.  

Commands are in _italics_.
==Procedure==
===Install mysql, turbocare, python, and apache2 packages.===

`sudo vi /etc/apt/sources.list`

Remove "#" on deb http://in.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ dapper universe
and on  deb-src http://in.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ dapper universe lines.

{{{

sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get install gcc libc6-dev  build-essential

sudo apt-get install mysql-server python-reportlab subversion

sudo apt-get install python-pysqlite2 python-mysqldb python-imaging  python-dev python-setuptools

sudo apt-get install apache2 libapache2-mod-python2.4

}}}

===Install turbogears===

{{{
sudo easy_install -UZ  setuptools

wget http://files.turbogears.org/eggs/TurboJson-0.9.9-py2.4.egg

sudo easy_install -fZ TurboJson-0.9.9-py2.4.egg

sudo easy_install -Z  TurboGears

wget http://files.turbogears.org/eggs/SQLObject-0.7.1dev_r1860-py2.4.egg

sudo easy_install -fZ SQLObject-0.7.1dev_r1860-py2.4.egg
}}}

Note the manual installation of TurboJson and SQLObject is to overcome a conflict with turbocare and the later versions of these modules.  In the future it is hoped to correct this problem.

Note when using easy_install we need to specify the install as unziped eggs as this stops apache from trying to extract the eggs into its own home directory.

===Install turbocare===

{{{
cd  ~/

svn checkout http://turbocare.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/  turbocare
}}}

===Setup database===
We should add a password to MySQL's root user but I will add that later. 

`mysql -u root -p`

just press enter if you have no password yet.

at the prompt type:

`create database turbocare;`

press enter and then ctrl-D to exit. 


{{{

cd ~/turbocare

python mysql_schema.py -d turbocare -u root -o schema_updt -f turbocare_schema.data

python mysql_schema.py -d turbocare -u root -o restore -f turbocare_backup.data

}}}
===Check standalone turbocare===
{{{
cp dev-sample.cfg dev.cfg

vi dev.cfg

}}}
Check that all the variables are right. Particularly the sqlobject.dburi string.

{{{
cp turbocare/ReportDefinition-Sample.py turbocare/ReportDefinition.py

python start-turbocare.py
}}}

If this loads without errors you have installed turbocare. 

Check it's really working by visiting http://localhost:8080/.  

If it is congratulations your half way to having turbocare and mod_python installed.  

Maybe you should grab a coffee now.  

==Modpython time==

Now to get mod_python working 

===Setup Turbocare for production===

{{{
cd ~/turbocare

cp prod-sample.cfg prod.cfg

vi prod.cfg
}}}

This is the production configuration file.  

Make sure the database variable is right. 

sqlobject.dburi="mysql://root@localhost:3306/care2x"

Make sure turbocare.basedir="/home/USERNAME/turbocare" points to where turbocare username is installed. 

You can also change the log file locations if you want to.
{{{
cp turbocare/turbocare_modpython-sample.py turbocare/turbocare_modpython.py

vi turbocare/turbocare_modpython.py
}}}

Update the configuration file location in this file to where you have installed turbocare.  

`sudo python setup.py install`

We need to install the files for apache to be able to find them.  

Note after every update you need to run this command.

`sudo cp modpython_gateway.py /usr/lib/python2.4/site-packages/`

Copy Modpython Gateway to pythons sitepackages.  This lets us use TurboGears with mod_python. 


===Apache Configuration===

{{{
sudo cp apache-turbocare.conf /etc/apache2/sites-available/turbocare

sudo cp apache-ssl-turbocare.conf /etc/apache2/sites-available/turbocare-ssl

}}}
Copy Apache def files

`sudo vi /etc/apache2/sites-available/turbocare`

Change any references to /home/david to the home/USER where user is the user in which you have done the installation with.

`sudo vi /etc/apache2/sites-available/turbocare-ssl`

Change any references to /home/david to the home/USER where user is the user in which you have done the installation with.

`sudo vi /etc/apache2/ports.conf`

Add a new line with _Listen 443_ on it.

{{{
sudo apache2-ssl-certificate -days 365

sudo mkdir /var/www/.egg
}}}
Setup temp egg directory.

`sudo chown -R www-data /var/www/.egg`


Install ssl certificate.



===Enable sites and modules===
`sudo a2enmod mod_python`

Enable mod_python for apache2

`sudo a2enmod  ssl`

Enable ssl for apache2

`sudo a2dissite default`

Disable the default site as we want turbocare to be new default.

`sudo a2ensite turbocare`

Enable turbocare site

`sudo a2ensite turbocare-ssl`

Enable ssl version of turbocare.


===Reports===

Now we need to change some permissions to make sure Apache's user can write reports.

{{{
cd ~/turbocare

sudo chown  www-data turbocare/static/reports

sudo chown  www-data turbocare/static/user_reports
}}}

===Finishing off===
`sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart`

Restart Apache2 to get it to load changes. 


Go to http://localhost and https://localhost in a Web Browser. 

Both should display first page of turbocare.  


==Upgrades==
To upgrade turbocare
{{{
cd ~/turbocare

svn update

sudo python setup.py install

sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart
}}}

=References=
My instructions are based on the following websites.  However I was able to simplify as we removed some of the work for mod_python by including necessary files in our svn version of turbocare. 

[http://trac.turbogears.org/wiki/ModPythonIntegration09]

[http://www.linode.com/wiki/index.php/Apache2_SSL_in_Ubuntu]